# Metabrain

The metabrain project (working title) originated at the "Refugee Hackathon" in
Oct 2015, Berlin, and is being developed in cooperation with partners from
online networking and search sites. These partners are from
[info-compass.eu](http://info-compass.eu/),
[refugeeboard.de](http://refugeeboard.de/),
[socialprohub.org](http://socialprohub.org/) and
[weconnect.berlin](http://weconnect.berlin/).

## Status/Challenge

Moved by the newcomers' plight, residents are not only volunteering in
unprecedented numbers but are also founding numerous projects aimed at
alleviating unmet needs. There is a massive overlap between those projects,
however, since existing platforms that could provide an overview of activities
are either not found or are insufficient. That overlap wastes precious resources
and causes many projects to stall at similar hurdles. Additionally, the sheer
number of platforms that promise an overview and ask projects to submit their
information are an additional burden on initiatives "in the field". There is no
consensus between platforms as to the data format nor can any one platform keep
their information up-to-date. There is an urgent need for a centralized source
of information that can provide unambiguous meta data on projects. Such a
repository could then supply other platforms as well as granting an overview of
current activities.

## Goal

To foster cooperation between projects through the revelation of synergies and
the possibility for networking. This is enabled by providing structured meta
data on digital and analog projects as a free and open service.

## Solution

Gathering and merging all relevant data sets in order to create a comprehensive
and current catalog of projects. Core data collected includes but is not limited
to name, goal, website, contact. This collection seeds a database that provides
standardized meta data on projects, as well as mapping their needs. Users
wishing an overview are served a simple search interface but are encouraged to
make use of one of the more specialized platforms that can grant a targetted
view on the same data set. Those platforms, such as the aforementioned partners,
are given access to the data via an open interface (API). After the release of
the database with the seed content, entry and update of information by the
projects themselves in incentivized.

## Next Steps

A first version is planned to be released for and presented at the conference
"[Civil Society
4.0](https://www.hkw.de/en/programm/projekte/2016/civil_society_4_0/civil_society_4_0_start.php)"
at Haus der Kulturen der Welt, March 3-5, 2016.

## Contact

[metabrainde@gmail.com](mailto:metabrainde@gmail.com)

* Moritz Beber
* Ulrike Thalheim

